All right. So let's talk about components in spark.
The Spark Core component is the underlying engine
for parallel and distributed processing of large datasets.
All other functionalities are built on top of this component.
Spark Core provides in-memory computing capabilities,
fault recovery, efficient memory management and so on.
Spark Core uses a data structure known as RDD,
Resilient Distributed Datasets, for operations on data.
Spark SQL components sits on top of the core component.
DataFrame and dataset are two core building blocks of the SQL component.
Developers can run SQL like queries on Spark data present in RDDs and DataFrame,
datasets, and other external sources.
Users can extract and transform and load the data set then apply functions on the data.
The data can come from various sources formats like SJSON, Parquet,
HIVE, CSV or even plaintexts and then run ad-hoc queries using Spark SQL.
The Spark SQL in API interface provides information
about the structure of the data in the computations that you perform.
It also makes the process of extracting and merging multiple datasets easier so that
the finalized datasets or
even intermediary datasets are ready to be used for anything you'd like,
usually to perform analytics or machine learning algorithms.
Discretized streams is a basic abstraction in Spark Streaming.
It uses a continuous stream of input data to process data as micro-batch or in real-time.
Spark Streaming inherits the fault tolerance characteristics as well.
There are other components like MLlib, SparkR,
and GraphX, but we won't be going over those components in this course.